# DH2018 conference report
The ADHO was first organized in the global south. The opening of the conference started with a sharp political statement condemning political efforts of Mexico's northern neighbor. The theme of this year's conference was bridging disciplines, this was extended and presented as the opposite of the separation of family using walls and cages. Herewith, Digital Humanities was presented as an intrinsically political scholarly field. While I am also apalled with the practices of the Trump government, I am always somewhat suprised by making this particular field of research so explicitly political, perhaps even more so than the humanities in general. 

This political orientation defines in part the research question asked and the topics studied. But I don't see how the digital in itself should be so political. Personally, I would argue that the question asked and the topics studied can be guided by political intent. However, in the critical interrogation of methods and the interpretation of results we should be careful not to replace existing biases in algorithms or statistical methods with biases that fit our political aims. In many existing algorithms and models, one can detect biases that reflect inequalities, power structures, and ideological constructs in society. 

I would argue that after the interpretation of results, which quite often will reveal inequality, power structures, lack of attention for minority histories, politics should kick in. And exactly here I would argue for the integration of the digital and quantitatve with the the hermeneutic, qualitative approach. First, this integration allows for a more empirical, reproducible foundation. Second, digital methods enable new, more affective ways to communicate results and connect research to policies and nudging behavior. 

In a way, I fear that a strong emphasis on politics a priori could lead to the bias in methods and interpretation of data, and perhaps presentation of results. Consequently, this allows for a more forceful repudication of inequality and discriminatory practices in society. Not only to scholars working in digital humanities, but also to scholars working in other fields, such as the social sciences. 

## Keynote

* Introduction Keynote
Relating history of publishing on the internet to language restrictions. Technological constrains caused only English to be used. Gradually other language variaties were introduced on the internet.

__Tramando la Palabra__
_Janet Chavez Santiago_

Analogy of the textiles 

difference in textiles as variation in languages 

# Beyond Image Search: Computer Vision Beyond Western Art History

__Bjorn Ommer__ 
* establish relationshops, find similarities, open up content 

### Distant viewing
* Image statistics > Bag of visual-words
* arrange / sort images based on simple stats

### close-up image analysis

Goal: combination of the two 
How can we find/learn similarities in images?

The multivariate nature of similarity

Esser et. al > CVPR' 18

appearance + shape > estimation 

## Exploring Large Historical Art Archives
__Benoit Seguin__

Three tasks for CV
* Automatized processing of scans / digitization

* Finding duplicate images

* Learning a visual similarity 

## Iconography, Pose Recognition, and a Grammar of Gestures
__Peter Bell__

Iconographies in art 
Object and Scene detection (understanding scene in a semantic way)

basic descrition of forms and figures
cultural context (iconography)
cultural history (iconology)

## Gesture in Art and Culture / CS / Digital Art History 
__Leo Impett__

alienating / decontextualizing objects
near / distance

# LP-3 Text Analysis


## Chinese sentence segmentation for Tomb Biographies of Tang Dynasty
segmenation of classical chinese

Classification problem > predict whether a character should be followed by a punctuation mark

CRF approach 
biLSTM 

## Distributions of Function Words Across Narrative Time in 50,000 novels
David McClure / Scott Enderle

function words acrross narratological time 

Places-CNN
YOLO9000


## The Scholar Index
__Colavizza et al.__

Google Scholar for the Arts and the Humanities (WHY?)

The Venice Scholar 
library.venicescholar.edu
tool presentations 

Sidestuff > pedagogy . project management

scholarindex.eu/resources/code
method to parse references in footnotes 

## Voiceless > Let them speak

## text2voronoi
Voronoi diagram of text
vornoi decomposition from the 2-d input space (word2vec of 180 lingusitic features)

## Authorship attribution
__David L. Hoover__

within model way of finding authorship attribution

## Burrows' Zeta 
__Christoph Schoch__

Measure distinctivness > Zeta
comparative analysis

Python implementation > PyZeta
application to literary subgenres

### What is distinctiveness
Frequency is not enough
Zeta: based on the dispersion of features

Two groups of documents
G1 + G2
split doc in segment of n words
sp_i = segment proportion of word type i 
zetaj = spj(G1) - spj(G2)



can we map text onto a seris of images 







